update readme (#1)
DevExpress-Examples/asp-net-web-forms-grid-enable-and-disable-batch-editing: Readme.md

> # Grid View for ASP.NET Web Forms - How to control data editing on the client side in batch edit mode

Reviewer: I'd like to question your choice of words here.

> How **to control** data editing

The word "to control" implies much, it can be actually anything. You can modify user input on-the-fly, you can prevent users from editing something, etc. However, this topic covers a very specific scenario, namely when you forbid users from editing a cell based on the current check box state. This topic does not explain how to assume the general control over user input.

The original topic name was good and bad at the same time. We could enhance it instead:

```suggestion
# Grid View for ASP.NET Web Forms - How to enable or disable the cell edit functionality in batch mode based on a condition
```

This is just a suggestion. You can come up with something better instead.

Author: I like your variant and absolutely agree with your comments. Since this scenario is a specific one, we should tell a user about it. Thank you!

Reviewer: You are always welcome. Every time you use a word, you should ask yourself -- is this word clear and unambiguous? Does it serve its purpose well in the current context? If you can answer "yes" to the both questions -- it means you've chosen the right word for the task. If not -- it's probably worth taking another look.

<!-- run online -->
**[[Run Online]](https://codecentral.devexpress.com/t150957/)**
<!-- run online end -->

> This example demonstrates how to use the check box state to control data editing in the grid in batch edit mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to use the check box state to enable or disable the grid's cell edit functionality in batch edit mode.
```

![Allow Edit Checkbox](controlEditing.gif)

## Overview

Follow the steps below:

1. Create the [Grid View](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.ASPxGridView) control and populate it with columns. Set the grid's [SettingsEditing.Mode](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.ASPxGridViewEditingSettings.Mode) property to `Batch` to enable the batch edit mode. Add a [GridViewCommandColumn](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.GridViewCommandColumn) and set its [ShowNewButtonInHeader](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.GridViewCommandColumn.ShowNewButtonInHeader) and [ShowDeleteButton](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.GridViewCommandColumn.ShowDeleteButton) properties to `true`.

    ```aspx
    <dx:ASPxGridView ID="ASPxGridView1" runat="server" KeyFieldName="ID" ...>
        <SettingsEditing Mode="Batch" />
        <Columns>
            <dx:GridViewCommandColumn ShowNewButtonInHeader="true" ShowDeleteButton="true" />
            <!-- ... -->
        </Columns>
    </dx:ASPxGridView>
    ```

> 2. Add a check box and handle its client-side [CheckedChanged](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.ASPxCheckBox.CheckedChanged) event. In the handler, create a flag variable, get the current state of the check box, and assign this value to the flag variable.

Reviewer: > In the handler, create a flag variable, get the current **state** of the check box, and assign this **value** to the flag variable.

Implied synonyms. You used "value" as a synonym of "state" but you never introduced them as such. Since you've said "get the state", it already implies that it is a value. Therefore, we can refer to this value as a "state" in the "assign" context:

```suggestion
2. Add a check box and handle its client-side [CheckedChanged](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/DevExpress.Web.ASPxCheckBox.CheckedChanged) event. In the handler, create a flag variable, get the current state of the check box, and assign the state to the flag variable.
```

    ```aspx
    <dx:ASPxCheckBox ID="ASPxCheckBox1" runat="server" Text="Allow edit">
        <ClientSideEvents CheckedChanged="OnAllowEditChanged" />
    </dx:ASPxCheckBox>
    ```

    ```js
    var allowEdit = false;
    function OnAllowEditChanged(s, e) {
        allowEdit = s.GetValue();
    }
    ```

> 3. Handle the grid's client-side [BatchEditStartEditing](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditStartEditing), [BatchEditRowInserting](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditRowInserting), and [BathEditRowDeleting](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditRowDeleting) events. In the handler, cancel the current editing operation based on the flag variable value.

Reviewer: > [BathEditRowDeleting](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditRowDeleting) events.

"Bath" instead of "Batch". Another typo that is easily missed by any spellchecker. Please be more attentive.

> cancel the current editing operation

Is there any specific reason to use the gerund form? The word "edit" works well enough as an adjective. The current edit operation.

```suggestion
3. Handle the grid's client-side [BatchEditStartEditing](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditStartEditing), [BatchEditRowInserting](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditRowInserting), and [BatchEditRowDeleting](https://docs.devexpress.devx/AspNet/js-ASPxClientGridView.BatchEditRowDeleting) events. In the handler, cancel the current edit operation based on the flag variable value.
```

    ```aspx
    <dx:ASPxGridView ID="ASPxGridView1" runat="server"  ...>
        <!-- ... -->
        <ClientSideEvents BatchEditStartEditing="OnEditing" BatchEditRowDeleting="OnEditing" BatchEditRowInserting="OnEditing" />
    </dx:ASPxGridView>
    ```

    ```js
    function OnEditing(s, e) {
        e.cancel = !allowEdit;
    }
    ```

## Files to Review

* [Default.aspx](./CS/Default.aspx) (VB: [Default.aspx](./VB/Default.aspx))

## Documentation

* [Grid in Batch Edit Mode](https://docs.devexpress.com/AspNet/16443/components/grid-view/concepts/edit-data/batch-edit-mode)

## More Examples

> * [Grid View for ASP.NET MVC - How to control data editing on the client side in batch edit mode](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/gridview-how-to-conditionally-enable-and-disable-the-batch-editing-on-the-client-side-t150965)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Grid View for ASP.NET MVC - How to enable or disable the cell edit functionality in batch mode based on a condition](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/gridview-how-to-conditionally-enable-and-disable-the-batch-editing-on-the-client-side-t150965)
```
